# Briefly summarize The Gaming Room client and their software requirements. Who was the client? What type of software did they want you to design?
My client was a game studio called, The Gaming Room. They wanted my company to create a new design to upscale their mobile game, “Draw It or Lose It.” The game is currently only available for android devices. The client wanted the game to be available for Windows, MacOS, Linux, Android, and iOS. To achieve this, our plan was to create an online game service using REST architecture. This singular service would be accessible to players through client-side software they would have installed on their devices which would interact with the server through HTTP requests. The client device would feed the player’s actions to the server through HTTP PUT requests and receive the results of their actions through HTTP GET requests. This would mean designing client apps for Windows, MacOS, and Linux, and then designing mobile apps for Android and iOS.
# What did you do particularly well in developing this documentation?
One thing I think I did very well and had a lot of fun doing was creating the software recommendations section. I learned a lot while writing this section. I gained intimate knowledge of the inner workings of the Linux kernel and the GNU operating system. I believe this section offers in-depth insights into the GNU/Linux operating system and the server architecture we will be using and makes good recommendations based on these insights. I believe that someone reading this document will understand why I made the design decisions that I did.
# What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code?
Creating the design document forced me to develop a coherent plan for the software before I dove in and started coding. Sometimes I find out I have been going in the wrong direction too late. Now that I have this document, I know pretty much what to do every step of the way. For example, I know that I would start with a prototype on a local server that I interacted with through a standard web browser. Then, I would scale up from there.
# If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
The main part I would improve would be the platforms evaluation. I specifically would like to include more information about MacOS. I have only ever used Linux and Windows, so I do not have as much of a feel for how MacOS works. I would probably try to install MacOS on a virtual machine and do some research so I could make a more detailed analysis of that platform.
# How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
I know the primary user-base will be smartphone users. Most people have smartphones these days, and social games like this lend themselves to the mobile game format. Because of this, I put most of the focus in the designing of this game into the Android and iOS platforms. I made sure to focus on having  the proper development environments for both of these platforms (Android Studio, Xcode) and having developers experienced in the proper languages (Java, Kotlin, Swift, Objective-C). Then, by matchmaking players on servers, we can deliver the social experience the users really want.
# How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application?
My approach to designing this software was to first evaluate what the users wanted. I knew the vast majority of users would be on mobile devices, and a few might be on Windows. So, I focused on those platforms first. I also knew we needed dependable servers, so I decided to use Linux for that. This is the strategy I would use to design more software in the future. I would start with what I know the users need and build onto everything from that point.
